# Walmart-Sales-Forecasting

Retail has been an ever-growing industry with retail revenues projected to grow to 4.9 trillion US dollars in 2021. With this tremendous growth, sales forecasts will help every business understand changing customer demands, manage inventories as per the demands thus reducing the financial risks, and create a pricing strategy that reflects demand. Companies will be able to take strategic steps on their short-term and long-term performances and can decide their decision metrics. The dataset chosen is from the M5 forecasting competition 2020. This is Walmart’s dataset with information about various products sold in the US into 3 different states California, Texas, and Wisconsin. The dataset involves the unit sales of 3049 products classified in 3 product categories and 7 product departments. Data includes explanatory variables such as sell prices, promotions, days of the week, and special events that typically affect unit sales and could improve forecasting accuracy. This project will present the right methodologies to analyze time-series sales data and predict 28 days ahead point forecasts for the company to take strategic decisions based on the predictions. Additionally, the project’s goal includes making recommendations on inventory management based on the 28 days forecast. Sales forecasting is a very crucial research area with companies heavily investing and proposing advanced methods like NeuralProphet, Amazon’s DeepAR Model, Dilated convolutional neural networks. 

This work is in progress. Stay tuned :)

